(siren wailing)
Both from gunshot,
one to the left mastoid,
one to the
right thigh.
Vitals? Crashed twice en route,
but he's stable now,
barely.
BP's 50 over palp.
Pulse is 48.
(heart monitor flatlining)
Cancel that. He just zeroed out.
Paddles.
Charging.
Clear!
Clear.
Nothing.
Again!
Clear!
Still nothing.
Again.
CAINE:
She has five minutes left, Eric.
DELKO:
H, maybe she's in there.
(gunshots)
(agonized groans)
Eric?!
(gunshots)
(gunfire continues)
Doctor.
It's been
ten minutes.
Doctor, shouldn't
we call it?
(monitor flatlining)
Doctor?
Okay. Time...
1:04 p.m.
(monitor flatling)
Calleigh.
Dispatch said that Eric is
dead. What is going on?
I don't know. I'm trying
to find out. Excuse me.
Is there a place where we
can give blood to CSI Delko?
Your friend's not going
to need that anymore.
Are you saying he's dead?
No, no. I mean, he's
lost too much blood.
He's on plasma now to get
his volume up. I'm sorry.
I don't understand.
Is he okay,
or is he not okay?
They're doing
everything they can.
Excuse me, could we please
just get a straight answer?
Professional
to professional.
Okay.
They've been trying
to resuscitate him
for the last 11 minutes.
If he doesn't respond
in the next five,
they'll call it.
(monitor flatlining)
Give me an amp
of intercardiac epi.
DOCTOR: Okay, let's
stabilize him and get a CT,
then prep him for the OR.
NURSE:
He's back.
What do you want to do?
Catch the guy.
WOLFE:
Hey.
They find that
girl yet?
They find that court
stenographer, Cathy Gibson,
because I really need
some good news.
Natalia and Tripp
are working on it.
Let's hope she's
still alive.
.223 assault rifle
with an evidence tag on it,
so it's definitely
from the gunmelt truck.
The heist that keeps on giving.
Let me ask you something.
How do we know that
that guy and that gun didn't
put the bullet in Delko's head?
H said the head shot happened
after that guy was dead.
Also, Eric's wound
was consistent
with a small
caliber weapon.
Okay.
It's a miracle
that Eric's still alive.
Yeah.
Horatio said
the last shot
came from over there.
Really?
Calleigh!
I got a GSR cone.
The shooter used that car
to steady his aim.
Isn't even a sniper shot.
Yeah. He chose the car with
the best vantage point.
Or maybe he created
a vantage point.
Look at the way it's parked.
Oh, yeah, you're right.
It's taking up
two parking spots.
Whoever owned this car
made sure that they
had the front row seat.
That's a front row seat
he'll be sorry he got.
Let's go talk to him.
You're a security guard
on the lot, right?
Yeah. Which side do you wear
your holster on?
Uh... right. Why?
Want to do me a favor...
uh, give me your right hand.
DUQUESNE:
Why two parking spaces?
I park that way so I don't
get my car scratched.
That car's all I got.
Shouldn't have even bought
the thing on my salary.
What's this about? You were
working today, weren't you?
Uh, yeah.
Then you were there
for the shooting.
No, negative.
Were you there,
Mr. Keeler?
Kind of.
Kind of?
What does that mean?
Well, I was down on level
two when I heard the shots.
I ran to help when
I see this guy,
like, booking it
down the stairs.
Did you, uh, did you get
a good look at this guy?
Dark hair, I think,
medium build.
Wearing a dark jacket
and a baseball cap.
Why didn't you call it in?
(sighs)
I was embarrassed.
The place hires an armed guard,
and I didn't do a thing.
I'm sorry.
I wish I could
have done more.
I wish you would have.
A CSI was shot.
Any news on Eric?
He's still critical.
I swear to God,
when we find Clavo,
it's going to be hard for me
not to pull the trigger myself.
It's-it's all that
I can think about,
but right now,
I've got to focus
because Clavo's
still got a hostage.
Yeah, Cathy Gibson,
court stenographer.
We still got patrols out
looking for her.
We'll find her.
I think we just did.
Horatio had
the bank manager slip
a GPS locator in that money bag,
didn't he? Yup, Clavo and
his bags are at the beach.
Black Point.
Let's go.
The bag's here.
Clavo's not.
Hacked his
cuffs off.
He left behind the GPS.
That's not the only
thing he left behind.
Natalia.
Take a look at this.
Let's go.
(whimpering)
(gasps, screams)
Cathy.
I'm Natalia, I'm with
Miami-Dade Police Department.
It's okay,
you're safe now.
Let's get
these restraints off.
TRIPP: Is there anything you
can tell us about what happened?
I was in the trunk for...
I don't know,
forever, and...
we stopped,
and then
I heard him talking
to someone, and then
they cut off his handcuffs.
And then right after that,
they found the thing
in the money, and he got
so pissed, he said
he was going to kill me.
And when he took me down
to the water, I thought...
(sobbing)
But then he just
tied me up and left.
Okay.
It's going to be all
right; you're safe now.
We're going to get you
to the hospital,
we're going to get you
cleaned up and taken care of,
and then after that, can
we collect all your clothes
and take some pictures
of your injuries?
Yeah, of course.
All right,
let's go.
Here we go.
Oh.
Can you walk?
Yeah.
TRIPP:
Yeah?
Have we finished
processing her yet?
Yeah. Sort of.
How do you mean?
Cathy said that
Clavo assaulted her.
Take a look at the picture
of her cuts.
That's not a defensive
wound, is it?
No, it's not.
Do me a favor
and run her most recent
court assignments.
Will do.
So how's the hand?
Oh, the nurse put some stuff
on it.
It feels better.
Good.
Can I go home soon?
No, you can't,
Miss Gibson.
It turns out that you lied
to me about your hand.
What?
You got that cut
removing Clavo's handcuffs,
didn't you?
So you're not his victim.
You're his accomplice.
No. He kidnapped me.
Miss Gibson,
we recovered
the hacksaw
in your car.
We can print it,
if you'd like,
so why don't
you tell me
what really happened?
Whenever he was in court,
he'd look at me.
He was...
He was polite and funny and...
I don't know.
We had a connection.
That wasn't the only
connection she had.
You work in the 21st
Criminal District court.
Same one that signed off on the gunmelt.
You knew the route
and the time.
And you shared that
with Clavo, didn't you?
His people killed cops
to get to that truck.
They blew up the courthouse
to break him out.
I didn't know
he was going to do that.
I thought he was...
What did you think?
You thought he was going to be
nice, with a whole truckload of guns?
He said he would
take me to his country.
We'd be royalty.
Then he just left me
in the water to die.
After all I did.
We call that a confession.
Oh, God.
Miss Gibson,
if my CSI dies, you're going
to be charged with murder.
It's all your fault, you know.
You made his father turn on him.
Made him hate his own father.
We ran the DNA, General,
and it turns out
that Clavo
and his brother...
.. have different fathers.
I need to remind you now
you have the power
to rescind his immunity
at any time.
Rescind it.
You ruined his life.
Miss Gibson, Clavo is a big boy
who ruined his own life.
He's a killer
who brought this
on himself.
Horatio,
I tracked down Clavo's
father, General Cruz.
Turns out he is in town
since yesterday.
You going to tell me
what this is all about?
This is about revenge, Frank.
That's what Clavo's after.
You think the
general's in trouble?
I do.
Well, this is odd.
TRIPP: Where's all the security?
Yes. Maybe the general
has company, Frank.
Frank, have your men
cover the exits,
and I will go
through the front.
CLAVO: So glad I found you, Pop.
TRIPP: Horatio, I'll cover the rear.
Now, stay right there so
we can have a little talk.
How do you do that, huh?
How do you just
disown me like that?
It was my only choice.
That was your choice, huh?
To turn your back on your son?
Please, hijo.
Oh, now... now you want
to call me hijo.
Clavo.
You know what,
my friend,
you are a serious playa.
You could learn something
from this man, Pop.
He never gives up.
And I love that
about you, Caine.
Clavo, put it down.
You know what?
That's a good idea.
Violence is bad.
Clavo,
especially for you.
You know what, Caine?
I do not think that you're
in a position to negotiate.
You shoot me, I shoot him.
And I know you- you'd lose
some major sleep over that one.
Clavo...
Don't even think it.
Put it down.
How bad you want me
dead right now, Caine?
That's up to you, my friend.
Been real, Pops.
(gunshot)
Clavo!
(gunfire) TRIPP: Horatio!
Frank!
Yeah, I got him.
(weakly):
Lieutenant.
General, hang on a second.
How did I raise such a man?
General, it's
not your fault.
Promise me, Lieutenant.
Promise me...
you'll end this...
for good.
General, I promise you.
G- General?
(distant sirens)
So he had to come through here.
Every exit had an officer
stationed at it.
How did he get out?
Ma'am...
I think I may know.
Wow. Very Indiana Jones.
Yeah.
Most consulates
have escape exits.
This must be one.
What's that?
What'd you get?
Piece of glass?
That's an uncut diamond.
Okay, so Clavo came here
for a lot more than his father.
How many of these
do you think he has?
Probably more than he could
leave the country with.
He's going to have to try
to sell them somewhere.
Yes, I agree.
And that's exactly how
we're going to find him.
I'm going to take it to Trace.
WOLFE: So this is
where the security guard
said he saw that guy
run past him.
I found a paper clip.
Bag it. You never know.
Ryan!
What?
Jacket and a hat.
Well, it looks like our, uh,
security guard was telling
the truth. Guess the guy
ditched his clothes
in here after he saw
the security guard.
What are the chances they
belong to the guy who shot Eric?
There's only one
way to find out.
(computer beeping)
Got a hit.
(computer beeps)
Tanner Wilcox.
B&E, armed robbery.
And attempted murder.
It's negative.
What'd you do?
What'd you do,
did you washed your hands?
No, I didn't.
I just didn't shoot anyone, man.
No, it's not anyone.
He's a cop.
He's my friend.
He's got a name.
His name is Eric Delko.
Heard about that
on the radio.
That's unfortunate.
Don't do that.
Don't give me attitude.
I know you were there.
I know you pulled the trigger.
No. No, I didn't.
Really? What's this?
What's this?
These all have
your DNA on it.
They belong to you.
Okay!
I was there.
Start talking.
I was doing a walk-through.
Checking for unlocked cars.
Found one.
Sweet laptop inside.
Grabbed it. That's
when I heard sirens.
Thought maybe they were
for me. I took off.
What about the shooting?
Yeah.
Scared the hell out of me.
I was halfway down the stairs.
Then I saw that security guard
Figured I better
toss my clothes.
(distant sirens)
So you can charge me for theft,
but I ain't taking heat
on this other thing.
(cell phone rings)
We'll see about that, won't we?
Hey, Calleigh,
where are you at with this
because this guy doesn't have
any GSR on his hands,
unless you've got
a bullet or a gun.
Well, then we're halfway there.
I'm at the hospital.
They just recovered the bullet
from Delko's head.
That's great. How is, uh...
How's he doing?
I'm about to find out.
Okay, I'll talk to you later.
(softly):
Eric.
Hey. It's Calleigh.
(quietly):
Cal.
You look good.
Your, uh...
your parents are on the way.
They're going to be here
really soon, and, um...
Horatio was here and Alexx.
Where's my sister?
What?
Marisol.
Where's my sister?
I want to see my sister.
Hey...
Why don't you rest.
Just rest.
DUQUESNE:
Alexx.
You okay?
It's what they could get
of the bullet.
I have to warn you,
it's not much.
The rest is lodged
in his temporal lobe.
He's different.
I tried to catch you
before you went in.
Patients with a hematoma
like Eric's, loss of oxygen,
deficits are natural.
Like what?
Compromised motor skills,
slow speech...
He thinks Marisol
is still alive.
Memory loss.
So what's going to happen?
It already has, honey.
He just might not be
the Eric we know him to be.
WOMAN: Lieutenant, this is
Judith Freeman with your bank.
You asked me to try to trace
who wired that money into
your account for Clavo Cruz?
Yes. Any progress?
Ran a reverse trace
on the transfer;
found a bank in the Caymans.
Yes, unmarked accounts,
no doubt.
But our bank investigators
turned up
a social,
which took us to a name.
A Joseph Trevi.
Joseph Trevi?
I hope this helps.
It does help, Ms. Freeman.
Thank you.
I hear you found my money.
Mr. Trevi...
you transferred that money
into my account so Clavo
could get his hands on it.
I didn't wire that money.
Your name,
Mr. Trevi, is on that account.
Oh, believe me, I'm getting
into it with my accountants.
Heads will roll.
I mean, a million dollars
doesn't make or break me,
but it's the principle
of the thing.
You understand.
Here's what I understand.
You bankrolled Clavo,
there are three
dead police officers,
and I have...
a CSI at death's door.
And I'll make sure
that I donate more
to the Policeman's
Fund next year.
Mr. Trevi, I would be
careful if I were you.
You are the one who
should be careful.
The way I heard it,
you gave Mr. Cruz the million,
Lieutenant.
If I were a betting man,
Mr. Trevi,
I would say that you've been
in contact with Clavo,
and the payoff is diamonds.
I'll tell you what.
I'll let my lawyer
take that bet.
Yeah, and you both gonna lose.
located four blocks
from Baracan Consulate.
MDPD! Get out of the car!
Car is clear.
(phone ringing)
Calleigh, Frank.
I just found
what's supposed to be
Clavo's getaway car
a couple of, uh, blocks
from the consulate.
What about Clavo?
No. I think he had
to improvise
when he went out the back way.
Good news is, I've got 50, maybe
more of the gunmelt guns inside.
Great. Bring 'em in-
let's get started.
Hopefully, I'll have something
to compare them to.
All right.
Hey.
Heard you recovered
some diamonds at the consulate.
Yeah, well, not some
diamonds, just one.
Oh.
Singular,
one.
That is a weird-looking rock.
This is a raw diamond.
It's uncut and unpolished
- they don't just
come out of the ground
looking like engagement stones.
A lot of hands figure
into the process.
How does the diamond and Clavo
fit together? Well, I scraped
the surface of the diamond
and I ran it for trace.
High in sulfite and nickel.
Nat, I'm a DNA girl.
You're going to have
to help me out on this one.
Well, basically it means
it's consistent with
sources in Sierra Leone.
Africa.
You think these
are blood diamonds?
I think this diamond's
come full circle.
While he had
diplomatic immunity,
Clavo smuggled raw
diamonds into Miami
using the Baracan
diplomatic pouch.
And here, Clavo steals guns
to get his diamonds.
Exactly. I think he's been
stockpiling these diamonds
at the consulate
for a while,
and the only thing that stopped
his little business is the fact
that we stuck him in
jail two years ago.
I think he was just waiting for the
right time to sell those diamonds,
and he got arrested
before he got the chance.
Now that
he has them back,
I wonder who he's going
to sell them to.
It would have to be someone who
really knows what they're doing.
TRIPP:
It's not just the terrorists
that Customs and Border
Protection are keeping track of.
That's what
I was hoping.
They flag people
who make repeated trips
to the same country.
Let's try Belgium.
Why Belgium?
90% of the world's
raw diamonds are
distributed from there.
How many trips per year?
Five to ten.
Well, okay, we got
about 15 names here.
Now what?
Well, let's see who's
traveled the most recently.
Audrey Van Der Mere.
Got here about three days ago.
It's convenient timing.
Who's she work for?
Duncroft Diamonds.
Clavo Cruz.
He looks dangerous.
I've never seen him.
We have reason
to believe
that he may be selling
illicit diamonds
on the black market.
Really.
Well, I can assure you,
I'm a reputable dealer.
Understood.
I'm just saying...
maybe he sold them to someone
else who sold them to you.
There's always politics
involved
when it comes to diamonds.
My job is to make sure
they come into hands
of the people who want them.
Do you ever worry
about the hands of the
people who made them?
Everybody works hard.
People don't want
to hear about that.
They just want to know
they're getting quality.
I'm sure.
Do me a favor and look
at one more picture.
This is Joseph Trevi.
Do you know him?
Officer, really.
I'm very busy.
Pretty simple question,
Ms. Van Der Mere.
Well, it's one
I'm not inclined to answer.
Now, if you'll excuse me.
I have something I think
you're going to want to see.
That's Joseph Trevi.
He's deep in this thing.
The diamond lady's
attitude confirmed it,
so I Googled him.
It turns out, he's from
a really wealthy family.
They're like the
Kennedy's over there.
This is a Baracan
newspaper.
Look who he's
standing next to.
I see that. General Cruz.
That's
from 27 years ago.
So I did a little
more digging.
Mm-hmm. Turns out he left the country
just a few months after
this picture was taken.
Right at the time
of Clavo's birth.
So, Clavo's lost one father.
Maybe he found another.
Let's get a warrant
for DNA.
I told you,
I don't know Clavo Cruz.
You're lying.
Such a confident man.
We ranour DNA, Mr. Trevi,
and it turns out
you're his father.
Only by blood.
You have something else
in common with him.
You're an accessory
to murder, now.
TRIPP:
The wire transfer.
No way a judge will believe
that was stolen now.
Not between father and son.
Seven weeks ago
Clavo contacted me.
He said he had a
plan to get out.
Needed a million.
I figured it was
for lawyers fees.
So you were clueless
of the gun heist
and the courthouse
bombing.
Of course. I'm a businessman.
A legitimate one.
Why would I get involved?
Well, I can think of
about 45 million reasons.
As I said before,
we have your bank account.
TRIPP: $45 million was just deposited
in that Cayman account.
That money came
from a pile of blood
diamonds, didn't it?
Clavo presented
me some diamonds,
I had no reason to believe
they weren't clean.
We met a woman,
we sold them.
I put the money into
a Cayman back account.
There's nothing illegal
about that.
You're not planning to share
that money with him, are you?
He's not my son.
I don't even know him.
His mother must have
told him who I am.
Where is he?
I'm supposed to call him, but I
have no intention of doing it.
Change your mind.
Call him.
He just called me.
CLAVO:
What took you so long?
I was visiting someone
in intensive care, Clavo.
Lieutenant Caine.
Now my parade has officially
been rained on.
So, I'm sitting here
with Joseph Trevi,
your biological father.
And how is Dad?
Well, he's given you up,
and he has no plans
to contact you, Clavo.
No, no, he
wouldn't do that.
As a matter of fact
he would, my friend.
Which makes you all alone,
doesn't it?
You know what?
You're wrong, Caine.
You're wrong
'cause I got you.
I got you in my face
every minute of every day,
and this cat
and mouse thing,
it's just about to
start getting fun.
Clavo, I want you
to listen to me.
This is your opportunity
to turn yourself in.
Over my dead body, Caine.
Then over your dead body it is going to be...
Well, at least we got most of
the gunmelt guns back.
These were the ones
taken from Clavo's car.
How's it coming with the bullet?
I've only got about
15% of the projectile,
but I think there's
enough stria to gea hit.
It's a.223 caliber bullet,
which helps narrow the search.
You'll get it.
(beeps)
I don't believe it.
I got it.
All right.
Let's do the gun.
This is interesting.
Ruger 1022 rifle with a scope.
It's a gunmelt gun.
Rifle?
I thought we were
looking for a handgun.
A.223 can fit either
a handgun or a rifle.
We were looking for
the wrong gun.
Yeah.
It's right here.
Wait a minute.
If Delko was shot
with a rifle...
GSR test.
We swabbed the wrong hand.
You shot my friend.
I don't know what
you're talking about.
Ryan! Hey, man, you want
to play a game with me?
Easy!
Look, whatever happened, okay,
I didn't have anything to
do with it. You can deny it
all you want, but
the proof is right there.
You took a shooter's stance and
that's why the gunshot residue
ended up on your left hand
instead your right.
When you fire a bullet,
the gunpowder
doesn't always burn.
The bullet comes out,
so does gunpowder,
ends up on you.
(sighs)
Clavo said he was going to
give me a hundred grand.
I'd finally get
to pay my car off.
You put a bullet
in my partner's brain.
I don't give a damn
about your car.
Get him out of here.
BOA VISTA:
Hey, Ryan.
Is this my file on
Audrey Van Der Mere?
Yeah.
I figured that if Clavo's
out there with nothing,
maybe he'd try
to get something back.
The diamonds.
But I searched
Duncroft's showroom.
There's no uncut diamonds.
Right, there's
no uncut diamonds.
She's just a
wholesaler.
She doesn't process diamonds.
Well, she didn't,
but take a look at this.
This is a work visa
that was obtained
by Audrey Van Der Mere.
Negandra Padir?
What's his story?
He entered the country
three days ago.
And he was traveling
with five children.
Natalia...
he's a diamond cutter.
She is laundering the
diamonds; she's just getting
somebody else to do her
dirty work. Take a look
at what he listed
as his residence.
BOA VISTA:
1145 Ocean, Bal Harbor.
That's Duncroft.
If the diamonds are there,
maybe Clavo will be.
Miami-Dade P.D.
We have
a search warrant.
You've already searched
the store.
That was for
the showroom.
This is
for the whole premises.
This Clavo you're looking for
isn't here.
Yeah, well, we're
going to see about that.
Hey, what's
behind this door?
It's storage.
Nothing
that concerns you.
Either you open this
door or we will.
You see?
It's just supplies in there.
What king of storage closet
has stairs and another door?
Where does that door lead?
No use stalling,
Ms. Van Der Mere.
Just keep
those policemen out.
They'll scare my staff.
MAN:
Work, work.
Well, this is something
you don't see every day,
Nalia.
Children working
in a sweatshop in Bal Harbor.
How old are these children?
I give them a good life,
I can assure you.
Better than they had.
They have meals,
a place to sleep,
money for their families.
They are children.
You're using kids
to cleanse conflict diamonds?
Some of the world's
most beautiful diamonds come
from some very
ugly places.
I am merely answering
a retail demand.
Nobody wants diamonds
made like this.
We're taking everything.
Everything in my store
is not made
from conflict diamonds.
Unfortunately for you,
once they're polished,
you can't tell the difference,
so we're going
to seize it all,
including the children.
WOLFE: Let's get these kids out of here.
I decided to take you
up on your offer
and turn myself in.
So to speak.
You're here
because you want me to kill you.
Yet another startling
revelation on the obvious.
I will...
kill you, Clavo.
This ends right now.
I know.
So you take care.
(grunts)
Take care, Clavo.
(sirens wailing)
(monitor beeping rhythmically)
We got him, Eric.
(whispers):
H?
Yeah.
I don't remember anything.
You were shot
in the line of duty, Eric.
You're in the hospital.
Where's Marisol?
Where's my sister?
Why isn't she here?
She's, um...
she's gone, Eric.
It'll come
back to you.